The following terms are applicable to individuals who are not situated within the jurisdiction of the Republic of China (Taiwan):

Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International

=======================================================================

Creative Commons Corporation ("Creative Commons") is not a law firm and
does not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of
Creative Commons public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or
other relationship. Creative Commons makes its licenses and related
information available on an "as-is" basis. Creative Commons gives no
warranties regarding its licenses, any material licensed under their
terms and conditions, or any related information. Creative Commons
disclaims all liability for damages resulting from their use to the
fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and
conditions that creators and other rights holders may use to share
original works of authorship and other material subject to copyright
and certain other rights specified in the public license below. The
following considerations are for informational purposes only, are not
exhaustive, and do not form part of our licenses.

     Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are
     intended for use by those authorized to give the public
     permission to use material in ways otherwise restricted by
     copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are
     irrevocable. Licensors should read and understand the terms
     and conditions of the license they choose before applying it.
     Licensors should also secure all rights necessary before
     applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the
     material as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any
     material not subject to the license. This includes other CC-
     licensed material, or material used under an exception or
     limitation to copyright. More considerations for licensors:
    wiki.creativecommons.org/Considerations_for_licensors

     Considerations for the public: By using one of our public
     licenses, a licensor grants the public permission to use the
     licensed material under specified terms and conditions. If
     the licensor's permission is not necessary for any reason--for
     example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to
     copyright--then that use is not regulated by the license. Our
     licenses grant only permissions under copyright and certain
     other rights that a licensor has authority to grant. Use of
     the licensed material may still be restricted for other
     reasons, including because others have copyright or other
     rights in the material. A licensor may make special requests,
     such as asking that all changes be marked or described.
     Although not required by our licenses, you are encouraged to
     respect those requests where reasonable. More considerations
     for the public:
    wiki.creativecommons.org/Considerations_for_licensees

=======================================================================

Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree
to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License
("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be
interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in
consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the
Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the
Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under
these terms and conditions.


Section 1 -- Definitions.

  a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar
     Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material
     and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered,
     arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring
     permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the
     Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
     Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording,
     Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is
     synched in timed relation with a moving image.

  b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright
     and Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in
     accordance with the terms and conditions of this Public License.

  c. BY-NC-SA Compatible License means a license listed at
     creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses, approved by Creative
     Commons as essentially the equivalent of this Public License.

  d. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
     closely related to copyright including, without limitation,
     performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database
     Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or
     categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights
     specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
     Rights.

  e. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
     absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws
     fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright
     Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international
     agreements.

  f. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or
     any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights
     that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.

  g. License Elements means the license attributes listed in the name
     of a Creative Commons Public License. The License Elements of this
     Public License are Attribution, NonCommercial, and ShareAlike.

  h. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database,
     or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public
     License.

  i. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the
     terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to
     all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the
     Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.

  j. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights
     under this Public License.

  k. NonCommercial means not primarily intended for or directed towards
     commercial advantage or monetary compensation. For purposes of
     this Public License, the exchange of the Licensed Material for
     other material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights by digital
     file-sharing or similar means is NonCommercial provided there is
     no payment of monetary compensation in connection with the
     exchange.

  l. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or
     process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such
     as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution,
     dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material
     available to the public including in ways that members of the
     public may access the material from a place and at a time
     individually chosen by them.

  m. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright
     resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of
     the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases,
     as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially
     equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

  n. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights
     under this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.


Section 2 -- Scope.

  a. License grant.

       1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License,
          the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free,
          non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to
          exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:

            a. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or
               in part, for NonCommercial purposes only; and

            b. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material for
               NonCommercial purposes only.

       2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
          Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public
          License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with
          its terms and conditions.

       3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
          6(a).

       4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The
          Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in
          all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created,
          and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The
          Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or
          authority to forbid You from making technical modifications
          necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including
          technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective
          Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License,
          simply making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)
          (4) never produces Adapted Material.

       5. Downstream recipients.

            a. Offer from the Licensor -- Licensed Material. Every
               recipient of the Licensed Material automatically
               receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the
               Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this
               Public License.

            b. Additional offer from the Licensor -- Adapted Material.
               Every recipient of Adapted Material from You
               automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
               exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material
               under the conditions of the Adapter's License You apply.

            c. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose
               any additional or different terms or conditions on, or
               apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the
               Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the
               Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed
               Material.

       6. No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or
          may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You
          are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected
          with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by,
          the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
          provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

  b. Other rights.

       1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not
          licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity,
          privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to
          the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to
          assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited
          extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed
          Rights, but not otherwise.

       2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this
          Public License.

       3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to
          collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed
          Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society
          under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory
          licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly
          reserves any right to collect such royalties, including when
          the Licensed Material is used other than for NonCommercial
          purposes.


Section 3 -- License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the
following conditions.

  a. Attribution.

       1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified
          form), You must:

            a. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor
               with the Licensed Material:

                 i. identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed
                    Material and any others designated to receive
                    attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by
                    the Licensor (including by pseudonym if
                    designated);

                ii. a copyright notice;

               iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                iv. a notice that refers to the disclaimer of
                    warranties;

                 v. a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
                    extent reasonably practicable;

            b. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and
               retain an indication of any previous modifications; and

            c. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this
               Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or
               hyperlink to, this Public License.

       2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any
          reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in
          which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be
          reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or
          hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
          information.
       3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
          information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent
          reasonably practicable.

  b. ShareAlike.

     In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share
     Adapted Material You produce, the following conditions also apply.

       1. The Adapter's License You apply must be a Creative Commons
          license with the same License Elements, this version or
          later, or a BY-NC-SA Compatible License.

       2. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the
          Adapter's License You apply. You may satisfy this condition
          in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and
          context in which You Share Adapted Material.

       3. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms
          or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological
          Measures to, Adapted Material that restrict exercise of the
          rights granted under the Adapter's License You apply.


Section 4 -- Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that
apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:

  a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right
     to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial
     portion of the contents of the database for NonCommercial purposes
     only;

  b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database
     contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database
     Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database
     Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material,
     including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

  c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share
     all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.

For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not
replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed
Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.


Section 5 -- Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

  a. UNLESS OTHERWISE SEPARATELY UNDERTAKEN BY THE LICENSOR, TO THE
     EXTENT POSSIBLE, THE LICENSOR OFFERS THE LICENSED MATERIAL AS-IS
     AND AS-AVAILABLE, AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF
     ANY KIND CONCERNING THE LICENSED MATERIAL, WHETHER EXPRESS,
     IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHER. THIS INCLUDES, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
     WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
     PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS,
     ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT
     KNOWN OR DISCOVERABLE. WHERE DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTIES ARE NOT
     ALLOWED IN FULL OR IN PART, THIS DISCLAIMER MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

  b. TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE, IN NO EVENT WILL THE LICENSOR BE LIABLE
     TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
     NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE FOR ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT,
     INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, OR OTHER LOSSES,
     COSTS, EXPENSES, OR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS PUBLIC LICENSE OR
     USE OF THE LICENSED MATERIAL, EVEN IF THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, COSTS, EXPENSES, OR
     DAMAGES. WHERE A LIMITATION OF LIABILITY IS NOT ALLOWED IN FULL OR
     IN PART, THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

  c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided
     above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent
     possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and
     waiver of all liability.


Section 6 -- Term and Termination.

  a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and
     Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with
     this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License
     terminate automatically.

  b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
     Section 6(a), it reinstates:

       1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided
          it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the
          violation; or

       2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any
     right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations
     of this Public License.

  c. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the
     Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop
     distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so
     will not terminate this Public License.

  d. Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public
     License.


Section 7 -- Other Terms and Conditions.

  a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different
     terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

  b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the
     Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and
     independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.


Section 8 -- Interpretation.

  a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and
     shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose
     conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully
     be made without permission under this Public License.

  b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
     deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the
     minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision
     cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License
     without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and
     conditions.

  c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
     failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the
     Licensor.

  d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted
     as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities
     that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal
     processes of any jurisdiction or authority.

Section 8 -- Additional Terms.
  a. Restriction on Use by ITRI
     The Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) is **expressly and unconditionally prohibited** from using, modifying, distributing, sublicensing, or incorporating this project, in whole or in part, for any purpose, whether commercial, research, or otherwise.
  b. Enforceability of Additional Terms
     This restriction shall be legally binding and enforceable under the same jurisdiction as the main license. If any provision of this restriction is found to be unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect to the maximum extent permitted by law.  
  c. Clarification
     This restriction applies **exclusively** to ITRI and does not affect the rights granted to other academic institutions, developers, or healthcare organizations under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
Public License.  

=======================================================================

Creative Commons is not a party to its public
licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to apply one of
its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances
will be considered the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons
public licenses is dedicated to the public domain under the CC0 Public
Domain Dedication. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that
material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or as
otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not authorize the
use of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any other trademark or logo
of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including,
without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications
to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements,
understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For
the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the
public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.


以下授權條款適用於中華民國（臺灣）境內使用者：

姓名標示─非商業性─相同方式分享 3.0 台灣
授權條款

本著作（定義如下）係依據本「創用CC公眾授權條款」（Creative Commons Public License, 簡稱 CCPL 或「授權條款」）提供。本著作受到著作權法以及（或）其他相關法律的保護。禁止任何未經本條款授權或著作權法許可對本著作的使用。

當行使本授權條款就本著作所提供之任何權利時，您承諾並同意受本授權條款之拘束。如本授權條款被認為是契約時，您對這些條款及條件的承諾，是授權人授與您此處所定權利的前提。

1. 定義

    「改用作品」指基於本著作，或基於本著作與其他先前存在之創作而來的著作，例如翻譯、修改、衍生著作、編曲或其他文學或藝術創作的變更、或錄音物或表演及視聽的修改，或以任何其他形式對本著作的角色變更、變形、修改，包含任何可辨認為源自原件的修改形式；但該著作如構成彙編時，則不屬於本授權條款目的下之改用作品。為避免疑義，為本授權條款之目的，當本著作是音樂著作、表演或錄音物時，將本著作依時間序列關係附著於動態影像之創作，視為改用作品。
    「彙編」指文學或藝術創作的合集，例如百科全書及詩文選集，表演、錄音物或廣播，或除列舉於後述第1條第(g)項所列之著作以外的其他著作或保護標的。由於其內容之選擇與編排具有智慧創作性，且本著作於其中是以未經修改的完整形式，與一個或更多的作品，彼此間成為分離且獨立之著作，而共同彙集成的完整合集。為本授權條款之目的，構成彙編的著作，不會被視為改用作品（定義如上）。
    「散布」指在適當情況下，藉銷售或其他移轉所有權的方法，向公眾提供本著作或改用作品之原件及重製物。
    「授權要素」指下列由授權人所選擇並標示在本授權條款標題的高層次授權屬性：姓名標示、非商業性、相同方式分享。
    「授權人」指依據本授權條款提供本著作之個人或單位。
    「原始著作人」指就文學或藝術創作而言，創作本著作之個人或單位；若無法辨識創作本著作之個人或單位，則指發行人；此外，(i)就表演而言，指演員、歌唱家、音樂家、舞蹈家以及表演、唱歌、演說、朗誦、演奏、表現、或以其他方式表演文學或藝術創作或民俗創作作品的其他人員；(ii)就錄音物而言，指製作人，即首次將表演的聲音或其他聲音固著於錄音物之自然人或法人。
    「本著作」指依據本授權條款提供的文學及（或）藝術創作，包含但不限於以任何方式或形式（包含以數位形式）表達之文學、科學及藝術範圍之製作物，例如：書籍、小手冊及其他撰著；演講、演說、佈道及其他類似同性質之著作；戲劇著作或歌劇著作；舞蹈著作或默劇；含歌詞或不含歌詞之音樂作曲；電影著作及其他藉由與電影攝影技術類似之程序表達之同類著作；素描、繪畫、建築、雕塑、雕刻或版畫之著作；攝影著作及其他藉由與攝影技術類似之程序表達之同類著作；應用藝術著作；插圖、地圖、設計圖、草圖及地理、地形、建築或科學相關立體著作；表演；廣播；錄音物；和可受著作權保護的資料編輯；或不屬於文學或藝術創作的各式表演人或馬戲團表演人所表演的創作。
    「您」指先前並未就本著作違反本授權條款，或曾違反本授權條款但已獲得授權人明示之許可得依據本授權條款行使權利，而依據本授權條款行使權利之個人或單位。
    「公開演播」指公開口述本著作，及以任何方法或程序，包含以有線電、無線電或公開數位演播之方式，向公眾傳達上述公開口述內容；或以使公眾得從其各自選定之地點接收本著作之方式，向公眾提供本著作；或以任何方法或程序，包含公開數位演播之方式，對公眾演播本著作，及向公眾傳達上述演播內；或藉任何包含符號、聲音或影像之方式公開播送及再公開播送本著作。上述定義，包含但不限於我國著作權法所定義之「公開展示」、「公開演出」、「公開上映」、「公開播送」、「公開傳輸」及「公開口述」等。
    「重製」指以印刷、複印、錄音、錄影、攝影、筆錄或其他方法直接、間接、永久或暫時之重複製作。於劇本、音樂著作或其他類似著作演出或播送時予以錄音或錄影﹔或依建築設計或建築模型建造建築物者，亦屬之。

2. 合理使用權。本授權條款無意減少、限制或約束任何和著作權無關的使用或依據著作權法或其他相關法律，得主張著作權保護限制或例外之權利。

3. 授權。根據本授權條款之條款及條件，授權人授與您全球、免權利金、非專屬、永久的（在著作權存續期間內）許可，就本著作行使如下述之權利：

    重製本著作、將本著作收錄於一個或多個彙編之中、以及當收錄於彙編時重製本著作；
    創作及重製改用作品，惟任何這類改用作品，包含任何媒介中的譯本，需採取合理方式清楚標示、區分或以其他方法指明本著作之原始版本已被變更。例如，翻譯時可標記「原著作已由英文翻譯成西班牙文」，或修改的地方可以標示「原著作已被修改」；
    散布及公開演播本著作（包含收錄於彙編中之本著作）；及
    散布及公開演播改用作品。

上述權利可以在所有不論已知或將來被發明出來之媒體以及格式上行使。上述權利包含為了在其他媒體以及格式上行使權利而作技術上必要修改的權利。所有未經授權人明示授與的權利，於此加以保留，包含但不限於第4條第(e)項中提到的權利。

4. 限制。第3條所授與之權利，需受到下述條款明確的限制及拘束：

    唯有在遵守本授權條款的情況下，您方得散布或公開演播本著作。您必須在您散布或公開演播的每份重製物上，附上本授權條款複本或「統一資源識別符」(Uniform Resource Identifier) 。您不得就本著作提出或加入任何條款，而限制本授權條款、或限制本著作的接受者行使依本授權條款所授與他的權利。您不得對本著作再授權。您必須在您散布或公開演播的每份本著作的重製物上，保留所有與本授權條款有關的注意事項以及免除保證責任聲明。當您散布或公開演播本著作，您不得使用任何有效的科技措施於本著作，而限制從您取得本著作的接受者，行使依本授權條款所授與他的權利。本項（第4條第(a)項）適用於被收錄在彙編的本著作，但並不要求彙編在本著作以外的部分也適用本授權條款。若您創作彙編，則應在收到任一授權人通知時，於實際可行的範圍內，依其要求移除彙編中，如第4條第(d)項所定對於原始著作人及／或其指定第三人的表彰。若您創作改用作品，則應在收到任一授權人通知時，於實際可行的範圍內，依其要求移除改用作品中，如第4條第(d)項所定對於原始著作人及／或其指定第三人的表彰。
    您唯有遵守以下各款，方得散布或公開演播改用作品：(i) 本授權條款；(ii) 與本授權條款具有相同授權要素的後續版本；(iii) 與本授權條款具有相同授權要素（的此版本或後續版本）之尚未本地化(unported)或任一司法管轄領域之創用CC公眾授權條款（例如「姓名標示─非商業性─相同方式分享 3.0 美國」版）（以上各款簡稱為「可適用的授權條款」）。您必須在您散布或公開演播的每份改用作品的重製物上，附上「可適用的授權條款」複本或統一資源識別符 (Uniform Resource Identifier) 。您不得就改用作品提出或加入任何條款，而限制「可適用的授權條款」、或限制改用作品的接受者行使依「可適用的授權條款」所授與他的權利。您必須在您散布或公開演播的包含於改用作品中的每份本著作的重製物上，保留所有與「可適用的授權條款」有關的注意事項以及免除保證責任聲明。當您散布或公開演播改用作品，您不得使用任何有效的科技措施於改用作品，而限制從您取得改用作品的接受者，行使依「可適用的授權條款」所授與他的權利。本項（第4條第(b)項）適用於被收錄在彙編的改用作品，但並不要求彙編在改用作品以外的部分也適用「可適用的授權條款」。
    您不得以主要為獲取商業利益或私人金錢報酬的方式，行使依本授權條款第3條所授與之權利。以數位檔案分享或其他方式而以本著作交換其他受著作權保護之著作，若該著作物的交換並無涉及任何金錢報酬之給付，則不應被認為是為意圖獲取商業利益或私人金錢報酬。
    若您散布或公開演播本著作、改用作品或彙編，除非有依據第4條第(a)項之要求，否則您必須保留本著作所有的著作權聲明，且依您所使用的媒介或工具適當地提供下列資訊：(i) 若有提供原始著作人姓名（或筆名），則您應提供之，且（或）若原始著作人及（或）授權人，在授權人的著作權聲明、使用條款或藉由其他合理方式指定第三人（例如，贊助機構、出版者、期刊）為姓名標示的對象（「姓名標示對象」），則您應提供該第三人的姓名；(ii) 本著作名稱；(iii) 在合理實際可行的範圍內，授權人所指定與本著作相關之統一資源識別符，除非該統一資源識別符並非連結至本著作的著作權聲明或與關於本著作之授權資訊；及(iv) 若為改用作品，則比照第3條第(b)項，必須註明在改用作品中使用了本著作（例如「原始著作人之本著作的法文譯本」、「依據原始著作人之原著作而改編的電影劇本」等）。本項（第4條第(d)項）所要求的表彰方式，可以任何合理的方法為之；但是在改用作品或彙編之情況，對改用作品或彙編全部有貢獻之作者若使用單一的表彰時，則本項所要求的表彰，最低程度應作為前述表彰之一部分，並至少與其他具有貢獻之作者的表彰方式同等明顯。當您依據本授權條款行使權利時，為避免疑義，除非另取得原始著作人、授權人及（或）姓名標示對象事前的書面同意，不然您僅得依本條上述所定之散布的目的來使用表彰，您不得默示或明示地主張或暗示，您本人或您對本著作之使用，與原始著作人、授權人及（或）姓名標示對象間有任何關聯、贊助或背書關係。
    為避免疑義：

    您行使本授權條款所授與之權利，並非第4條第(c)項所允許之非商業使用或目的時，授權人保留由個人，或當授權人是著作權集體管理團體（或稱為「著作權仲介團體」）的會員的情況下，透過該集體管理團體，向您收取權利金之權利。
    「著作人格權」在相關法律認可的範圍內不受影響且係不可拋棄的。

5. 保證條款與免除責任聲明

除非由本授權條款之當事人相互以書面表示同意，且在準據法所允許之最大範圍內，否則授權人是以現狀之基礎提供本著作，授權人未聲明或提供關於本著作之任何保證，無論明示或默示，無論是否為法律所規定，包含但不限於任何有關本著作權利之擔保、可商業性、是否符合某特定之目的、未侵害他人權利、不具有潛在或其他之缺陷、正確性、或不論能否被發現之錯誤。有些司法管轄領域並不允許排除前述隱含保證，在此情況之下，前述之排除可能不適用於您。

6. 責任限制條款

除在相關法律所要求的範圍內，任何因本授權條款或本著作之使用所生之特殊的、附隨的、連帶的、懲罰性的、警告性的損害，授權人在法理上對您不負任何責任。縱授權人已經被告知發生此類損害的可能性時，亦同。

7. 終止條款

    若您違反本授權條款，本授權條款及其所授與之權利將自動終止。但依據本授權條款，而向您取得改用作品或彙編之個人或單位，若仍完全遵守該授權條款，則其取得之授權不會隨之終止。本授權條款第1、2、5、6、7及8條，不因本授權條款之終止而失效。
    除前述條款及條件另有規定外，在本著作著作權存續期間內，此處之授權係屬永久。但授權人保留依不同授權條款釋出本著作或隨時停止散布本著作之權利，惟授權人的這類選擇，不得撤銷本授權條款（或任何其他依據本授權條款已授與或必須授與之授權），且本授權條款將會全部繼續有效，除非本授權條款依據上述規定而終止。

8. 其他事項

    當您散布或公開演播本著作或彙編時，授權人以相同於本授權條款所授與您的條款及條件，授權予接受者對本著作的權利。
    當您散布或公開演播本著作之改用作品時，授權人以相同於本授權條款所授與您的條款及條件，授權予接受者對本著作的權利。
    若本授權條款之任何條文依相關法律係屬無效或無法執行，其餘條款之有效性或可執行性不受影響，此類條文應在使其有效及可執行最小必要範圍內自動修改，不需當事人採取其他作為。
    除非系爭當事人書面同意並簽名，本授權條款之任何條款或條文，皆不得被視為拋棄，及被視為是不違反的協議。
    本授權條款構成當事人關於授權本著作之全部協議。除此之外，並不存在任何有關本著作之認知、協議或表示。授權人不受任何出現在與您通訊間的附加條文所拘束。。本授權條款未經授權人及您相互的書面同意，不得修改。

9. 附加條款
　　
　　財團法人工業技術研究院（ITRI，以下簡稱「工研院」）**被明確且無條件禁止** 以任何形式使用、修改、散佈、再授權或合併本專案，無論用於商業、研究或其他目的。
　　本限制條款應具有法律約束力，並應適用於與主授權條款相同的司法管轄區。如本條款之任何部分被認定為不可執行，則其餘條款仍應在法律允許的最大範圍內繼續完全有效。
　　本限制條款**僅適用於工研院**，不影響根據本授權條款授予其他學術機構、開發者或醫療機構的權利。
